.TH prometheus-netapp-exporter 1 "February 25th, 2022" "Version 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
prometheus-netapp-exporter -  Export NetApp (C-mode) metrics from the OnTap REST API to Prometheus

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
prometheus-netapp-exporter
[
.I
-D|--debug
]
[
.I
-V|--version
]
.I
-c <cfg>|--config=<cfg>
[
.I
-h|--help
]
[
.I
-l <addr>|--listen=<addr>
]
[
.I
-q|--quiet
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Prometheus exporter for NetApp fileserver metrics, provided by the OnTap REST API (OnTap 9.6 or newer)

.SH OPTIONS
.B -D, --debug
.br
.RS
Show debug messages
.RE

.B -V|--version
.br
.RS
Show version information
.RE

.B -c <cfg>|--config=<cfg>
.br
.RS
Mandatory configuration file
.I <cfg>
on how to access NetApp fileserver API
.RE

.B -h|--help
.br
.RS
Show help text
.RE

.B -l <addr>|--listen=<addr>
.br
.RS
Listen on
.I <addr>
for Prometheus scrapes. Default is 
.RE

.B -q|--quiet
.br
.RS
Quiet operation, only warn and error messages are logged.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file is in YAML format. For example:

.RS
.nf
filer:
    - # name will be used in the filer label of the metrics. Mandatory
      name: 'netapp_filer_1'

      # Name or address of filer. Mandatory
      address: 'name.ip.or.fqdn'

      # Path to CA certificate used for signing the fileservers HTTPS certificate. Optional
      ca_cert: '/path/to/ca.crt'

      # Skip verification of fileservers HTTPS certificate. Optional, default: false
      insecure_ssl: false

      # user name and passsword for authentication for accessing the REST API of the fileserver
      user: 'reporting_user_name_on_filer'
      password: 'ItsSoFluffyImGONNADIE!'

      # Connection timeout in seconds for fetching data from the REST API. Optional, default 0 (no timeout)
      timeout: 120

      # what data to fetch and export
      targets:
          # Aggregate statistics. Default: false
          aggregates: true

          # Chassis statistics. Note: Fetching chassis information is a *very* time consuming task. Default: false
          chassis: false

          # CIFS statistics. Note: Requires OnTap 9.8 or newer. Default: don't export CIFS statistics
          cifs:
              # Export CIFS connection counters for client IPs. Default: false
              client_ip: true

              # Export user connections for mapped UNIX user. Default: false
              # Note: This contains sensitive information and GDPR rules could prohibit collection of user names!
              mapped_user: true

              # Export user connections for Windows users. Default: false
              # Note: This contains sensitive information and GDPR rules could prohibit collection of user names!
              user: true

          # Ethernet port statistics. Default: false
          ethernet: true

          # Fibrechannel statistics. Default: false
          fibrechannel: true

          # Export counters for internal jobs on the fileserver. Default: false
          jobs: true

          # Export NFS statistics. Default: don't export NFS statistics
          nfs:
              # Export CIFS connection counters for client IPs. Default: false
              client_ip: true

          # Export (user, group and tree) quota information. Default: false
          quotas: true

          # Export volume statistics. Default: false
          volumes: true

.fi
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Maus <maus@ypbind.de>

